# Metabolomics_Cornea_Aqueous_Humor

Keratoconus (KC) is the most common type of cornea dystrophia, having been shown that it usually includes, not besides structural but also enzymatic and proteomic changes. Also, there is an important mucosa surrounding the cornea, called the aqueous humor (AH) which is responsible for the transport of some vital metabolites that will serve as nutrients for the cornea. As such, it comes in handy studying its metabolic profile and learn about what, if any, changes might occur in the nutritional role of the aqueous humor towards cornea, and if there is any relationship between healthy humans and those with KC. Having this in mind, a set of investigators has conducted an approach to this issue by collecting samples from KC patients and healthy human beings, and done the proper proteomics analysis, which in the following case study, the NMR portion will be reviewed. Due to the hardness in obtaining samples from healthy, living patients, Snytnikova and collaborators chose to extract the “healthy” samples from cadavers to serve as a control group. This created an additional problem: the biochemical processes that partake in the post-mortem stage often alter the metabolic composition of aqueous humor (AH) which in turn will consequently also change cornea’s metabolome. In sum, this study has collected samples (both AH and KC) from 11 Keratoconus patients and 13 cadavers. The analytical data for quantification and identification of metabolites by NMR was done using a Bruker BioSpin and LC-MS.

The following data corresponds to the metabolic data from the NMR analysis and is accessible on MetaboLights through the codename MTBLS444 and it was processed using the help of Specmine. An R package which provides a set of methods for metabolomics data analysis, for example: data loading in different formats, pre-processing, metabolite identification, univariate and multivariate data analysis, machine learning, feature selection and pathway analysis.

# To visualize the final report download the ... and open it.
